school tens of thousands of students
just a few weeks ago across our country
began yet another school year students
in kindergarten through 12th grade
excited to go to school to see what they
might be able to learn this year excited
to build relationships with their
teachers and their friends but I want
you to think a moment about school many
of you in this crowd it might have been
years since you've been in a high school
setting and for some of you it was just
yesterday right well what is school like
I'd like to talk about school and what
it is like now and what it needs to turn
into or transform into so for those of
you who have since been out of school
for a number of years let me tell you
what it looks like for a high school
student
generally speaking across our country
school will start at 7:30 in the morning
for you you'll get up around 6:00 to
6:30 and find your way into that
building at 7:30 to begin your classes a
surprise to most if you've been out of
school for a while is the way that the
high schools are structured today the
majority of our high schools in this
country are on a block schedule meaning
they have four classes on one day and
four on the next that in and of itself
is efficient in some regards but
presents some interesting dynamics that
we may not be paying attention to a
student shows up at schools 7:30 in the
morning and they have a 90-minute class
waiting for them five minute break and
another 90-minute class five minute
break in another 90-minute class and so
it goes one day one set of classes the
next day another said can you imagine me
in a classroom for 90 minutes depending
on the subject matter it might be
appropriate but for most students that's
a very long time for most of us
including myself that's a long time to
be in a class school gets out around 202
to 2:30 around their country and
students then head home interesting in
this concept of school why we haven't
transformed or changed our schools the
real reason is perhaps no one has up
cycled education in a way that inspires
them to do it differently and this is
where I'd like to share with you
something very powerful and new that
we're doing here in our city and is now
spreading across
three realizing this trend in education
and realizing that we weren't doing
anything significantly different we as a
team of leaders in our district decided
to act think about some of the studies
that you would have heard about the
nation at risk in the early 1980s
speaking about how our public school
system was dramatically not serving the
needs of students again in the 2000 you
heard of No Child Left Behind again
speaking to this deficiency in the
public education system that we weren't
meeting the needs of students but absent
in this conversation is any change to
the structure of the school just as I
explained to you a moment ago what a
high school student looks and feels and
experiences every day is a school that
is no different depending on what data
charts you look at we haven't changed
our schools for a hundred and twenty
years one of the only institutions that
has not transformed in any way
regardless of the types of technological
changes changes in thinking that have
occurred throughout our country and so
you say why why have we not transformed
so this is the idea that led us to a
different dialogue we thought if we're
going to transform our school and create
something unique and new the first thing
we should do is ask our students and to
wit we did we sent out a survey and it
was a very simple survey three questions
one was what do you like about school -
what don't you like about high school
and three if you could create a school
of your own what would it look like now
I know some of you are thinking I know
what the responses were and you're right
some of the students did say they wanted
a six hour lunch period and they want a
pizza all day long but the majority of
students were quite sincere in their
answers and their answers run through as
what I like about school is the
opportunity to learn different things
and what I like about school is a
relationship I build with my teachers
and the friends that I have but what
they didn't like about school was the
very same thing they said they liked
they didn't have time to learn as much
about the things they liked they didn't
have the time to build the relationships
with their teachers that they preferred
and more importantly it wasn't set up to
meet their needs out of that survey we
garnered three or four important things
that are very important students want to
control their time their path their pace
and their place of learning so with that
in mind we started to construct if you
will in our minds a school that could
meet those needs
to give students control their time we
had to remove the idea of class periods
class bells had to remove that we had to
have the school open much longer than
that 7:30 to 2:30 and so we created a
school that does that to have control of
their path they needed to be able to
work as long as they needed to in
certain areas because that's what was
exciting him that day that's where they
were feeling success with the time
spread out throughout the rest of those
days and weeks and months to get the
rest of the information they needed they
also want to control their pace their
pace meaning if they were behind in a
certain area in a certain subject they
had the ability to work as long as they
needed to but the reverse was also
needing to be true if a student didn't
need that time in that class because
they had already had that information in
a prior class or in a prior school then
why make them sit for 90 minutes or
longer to understand information they
already knew so allowing them the pace
to pace forward and then the place that
they're learning that they could learn
at the school they could learn in the
different vitamins in the school in
different teachers classrooms as they
chose to learn perhaps outside of school
as well as within the school walls all
the things these things we gave credence
to and we honored them because in our
school and our thought process we put
the student at the center of every
decision we have made we call this
personalized learning it might not make
too much sense thinking about how would
you turn loose a fourteen-year-old for
those of you who have 14 to 18 year-olds
in your home right now for those of you
who had them or know them you think oh
my goodness this school must be chaos
how in the world can you allow a student
to control their time path pace in place
of their learning
how in the world could a teenager choose
and own their learning is this possible
it is and let me tell you let me walk
you through the life of a student this
student I will use his name Ashley and
she said I could use her example and so
with
permission I'm grateful Ashley comes to
school but she doesn't come to school at
the normal time of 7:30 in a traditional
high school she comes to school around
9:00 every day why because Ashley must
take care of her little brother because
her mother leaves five o'clock in the
morning to begin her work and she is the
primary caretaker in the home when mom's
not there but Ashley is able to get her
little sister to school and then get
herself to school
Ashley was behind in reading in the
ninth grade and she knew it because we
helped her understand where her levels
were but she had the ability to choose
the time and the place for her learning
and work to upscale if you will or
upcycle her reading to be able to
increase her reading levels to be able
to be competitive with her peers when
she comes to school in the morning how
she controls her time she first logs
into the school not by a teacher calling
role by simply scanning her card in a
scanner it says she's got to school that
tells her parents she's her mother she's
at school
that's it teachers are not in charge of
the calling the role the student is she
will then walk her way down the hall and
depend on what she needs to do she may
choose first to have a meeting with her
mentor teacher key to a school is
building relationships with adults we
all know this in the public education a
relationship with adult is very
important and to wit she meets with her
mentor teacher to discuss what she needs
to do that day that week in that month
she can then choose to head out to lunch
at 11:30 rather than 12 because she has
a class meeting that she wants to meet
at 12:30 and she has control over every
part of her education so what does this
do for a student like this that might
not necessarily be met in a normal
school environment tremendous outcomes
but you say what are the outcomes of the
other students well let me tell you this
approach which is called personalized
learning meets the needs of all students
in my opinion it is the equity we're
looking for to create the educational
environment for all of our students to
equitably access what they have not been
able to do we know this because we see
the outcomes you see it in the papers
it's among the National Dialogue and
with a new political season coming in no
doubt it will be discussed again the
success or failure of our schools well
let me tell you this approach of
personalized learning is something that
we can use throughout our country to
transform how we give access of
information and learning to our students
in powerful ways so what are some of the
outcomes one of the outcomes we could
use as a graduation rate after three
years at this school of using
personalized learning our graduation
rates are somewhere between 15 and 20
points higher than the national average
and you say but wait that's because you
chose the best kids and I would say
you're right because in my city in this
city all of our students are the best
students on the planet but some of those
students even though they're the best
students came in with learning
disabilities they may have come in with
reading levels that were low they came
in as English not their primary language
no matter the richness of their
background and how they came to us they
are all performing at high levels this
is significant another outcome you might
say well how else could we know if this
is successful and I'll tell you the
reason is the juniors and seniors that
can take college classes are taking them
at four to five times the rate and
succeeding than their peers across the
country so truly a magical place when
you personalize the environment for a
student to be able to own their
education the parents become more
engaged in high school and that's very
unusual they're excited about the fact
that their students have accepted the
responsibility to be their own boss if
you will another outcome is this word
has been the Ava's been spreading we've
had over a thousand people from outside
of this state come into the city to walk
through that school state leaders
principals teachers trying to understand
how in the world could you do
personalized learning and allow students
to own their education in an urban
setting and by the way in the state that
funds at the lowest levels in the
country they walk through they see the
magic and more important you know what
they see they see that they can do this
in their schools because you it is not
about the school leader and it's not
about the students it's about the
mindset that you can shift and transform
your schools
personalized learning is the wave of the
future it is the up cycle of education
or looking for it will take some time
for some folks to understand that you
can trust a 14-year old to own their
education and to accept it as something
that's important for the rest of their
lives another outcome might be well is
this something that other people
and implement and I would like to share
with you indeed it is we have many
different states that are currently
working with us and I did say states
state statewide organizations in
education looking to see how they can
now replicate personalized education
powerful but for the rest of the year
we're excited about simply serving the
needs and meeting needs of the students
in our city so with that I wanted to
leave one final challenge to you I'm
tremendously passionate about
transforming the lives of students
through education and through this
personalized approach passionate about
the idea that we can shape the
generations to come in our country in
ways we have not thought about and as
such I challenge you to think about
education in ways that you can
personalize and inspire that
personalization to occur in the
communities in the cities and the states
where you live because it will be in my
opinion the equity that we need to bring
to our children throughout this country
and the opportunity for all to truly
experience an outcome of success thank
you